>> Steve Kinney: All right, so
we got one more kinda conceptual,
it's more of a extension
of a conceptual thing.
And then we can fine-tune some models and
it's gonna be dope.
So we know about encoders and
we know about decoders, right?
And decoders are effectively when we
think a lot about one word at a time, and
we're only looking backwards, right?
And we know encoder takes the word, turns
it into the vectors, a list of numbers.
We capture that meaning and
we kind of start to figure this out.
The words are gone at that point,
right, we've turned it into these IDs.
When it's looking at Cat,
that has the idea of,
I almost remember the number that Cat had,
but whatever, doesn't matter.
It's now only working with those numbers.
It doesn't really care, the neural network
doesn't necessarily care about the words.
It just literally has these IDs, it's
putting in this multidimensional space,
and coming up with the relationships,
right?
Once they are encoded and they go in the
model, the words are gone, effectively.
So we need the part of, then, okay, I need
to figure out what the next word might be.
So decoder takes that and then tries to
decode it back into a sequence of words.
The goal is to produce a meaningful
sentence that actually makes sense,
which, if we even saw some of those
early examples we didn't always get.
The best way to think about
it is a zip file encoding is
effectively zipping up all your data and
then unencoding is
unarchiving all of that data because
ultimately those numbers will also be
smaller than the words that they represent
and they can be handed off to a gpu.
The GPU has no idea about words.
It's not familiar with
this concept of words.
It's been mining crypto all day.
It doesn't know what words are.
And so then obviously coming back
out is how we deal with that stuff.
And so we said before, encoder-only is
BERT kinda getting inside the transformer
itself, for us, getting the words in and
out that we have encoders and decoders.
But in the actual model itself, our GPTs,
what we're trying to move towards now,
when we go to fine-tune GPT2,
is effectively only looking backwards.
And it's not looking forward,
it's the auto-aggressive piece, right?
Bert is obviously just looking for
the context around everything.
And this is the.
We can actually see this where if
we Show 1 into ChatGPT, we'll see,
as every token,
it will know about the previous ones, but
it will nerf the next ones to a point
where there's no relation at all.
So it can only look backwards.
So we start with some kinda prompt, model
predicts probabilities for the next token.
Decoding strategy selects one token,
and that token's added to the input,
then we move on to the next token, right?
So you can almost see that when you
use ChatGPT, and that streaming
is both also to make it like you do not
have to wait forever to see a response.
But effectively it's making stuff up
as it goes along statistically, right?
It's saying like, okay, there's a token
that separates your prompt to its
beginning and it's going to guess what
the first word it should say is, and
then it's going to guess the next word and
it's going to guess the next word until
it feels like it will actually generate.
Like, actually,
the next word is to stop talking, right?
The next word is,
I'm done speaking now, right,
that was probably the next thing to do.
And some of that's
informed by what we saw,
a max token length or
something like that, right?
In a lot of ways,
you can use the ability to be like,
we're gonna hit that max token soon,
right, start winding this down,
does play into the statistical
model at some point as well.
We talked about temperature
that plays in here as well,
which is how much spiciness we want.
And we can actually see
that statistically.
And we reference this top-K and
top-p, that will all play in as well,
which is like,
how do we figure out the next word?
Cuz it's always going to be
the same word every time, right,
you don't get a lot of nuance.
And you almost go down the same rabbit
hole, like, a little bit of like.
Because if a sentence started
with the same three words,
you'd always end up in the same place.
So how do these two things work?
So pure sampling.
If you just said, hey, pick any other
word that could end poorly for you.
Any word.
No, Top case sampling is to pick.
If you say 50 of the 50 most likely
next words, go pick one of them.
But we saw that sometimes we had a
situation when we saw those earlier ones,
the very beginning,
where the confidence level was 0.99 for
one and then like 0.01 for
the next one, right?
So that even if you said,
I'm gonna pick the top 50,
the drop off after
the fifth could be huge.
And you get garbage words after that,
right?
And then the top P is like, okay,
pick from all the ones that you
had a confidence level above 90%.
Above 95%.
Above 85%.
Some of this is tweaking the knobs and
seeing, right?
And you can set both of these right.
But generally speaking, the top P is
the one you probably want, right?
Cause, like, you're saying, like,
I don't know if there's, like,
five words that are above 95% I feel
confident about, or 500, but, like,
I should feel pretty confident
about the next word, right?
That's usually the one you want,
unless you know that you have
a different one that you don't want.